hey hey hey everyone Anthony Fantan oh
here the Internet's busiest music nerd
you know who it is and it's time for an
analysis of one of the best music
industry lists to come out in 2019 you
thought list week was over you thought I
was done with lists
you thought lists for 2019 were finito
but that's not true because Billboard
before
2019 said sayonara decided to drop this
amazing list of the best rock songs of
not the Year at the decade the best rock
songs of the past ten years or at least
the top ones because billboard being the
institution that they are aren doubtedly
ranking these songs according to sales
and how they charted and all that stuff
before I get too deep into this I do
want to give a shout out to our patreon
page where you can gain access to bonus
monthly content also our discord to link
down below do that it supports
everything we do when you get some you
know some bonus stuff in them and in the
process but let's get into this list
Billboard top rock songs of the decade
here they are let's start at number ten
twenty one pilots stressed out and at
number nine twenty one pilots ride which
kicking this list off is not a very good
sign if this is going to be a rock list
and look not that twenty one pilots are
bad not that I hate twenty one pilots
and I like their their newest record
their newest record was really good but
these are not rock songs
I mean twenty one pilots I think do at
this point in their career with these
tracks having okay
and unique fusion of pop and hip hop and
a little bit of reggae as well
definitely a reflection of the current
music landscape that you have groups
like them that dabble in a little bit of
everything and I think that's cool but
these are not rock songs Portugal the
man feel it still Portugal the man I
think undeniably is one of the few
artists featured here that our rock band
have been making rock music for quite a
long time
so I don't so much mind their inclusion
on this list but walk the moon shut up
and dance not really I mean the track
does have some loud guitar riffs in it
but it mostly sounds like what you would
get if you took the shiny slick sounds
of u2 and tried to make them work in a
dance club or something the Lumineers oh
hey that is not a rock song nor are the
Lumineers even a rock band
they make indie folk music they make
full pop music not to skip the other
inclusion of twenty one pilots there
with song heathens but again that is not
one of their more rock-oriented songs
panic at the disco high hopes that's
just pretty much a pop tune that is
rocks panic at the disco sure they have
come out with rock music in the past I
think panic at the disco
despite their aesthetic changes over the
years are still predominantly seen as a
rock band but they don't really make
rock music these days in my opinion
imagine dragons though it'd make up the
top three with radioactive thunder which
to me is maybe the Poppaea STUV the
three and then which has that cute
little sad acoustic guitar lick in it
this is disheartening man this is this
is dismal not only because of vast
majority of these I wouldn't even really
categorize as rock songs sure some of
these bands make loud dramatic music but
that does not alone make a rock song in
my opinion I mean if Thunder is a rock
song what makes I don't know Taylor
Swift's calm now not a rock song because
it's not like those tracks don't share
similar production aesthetics they do I
mean I can't imagine a rock list looking
like this if we dialed it back to the
2000s because undoubtedly while groups
like Creed or groups like Nickelback
would end up on this list they're in
arguably true blue rock bands as much as
you may dislike their music
whereas imagine dragons twenty one
pilots the panic at the disco high hopes
song on this thing I
feel like these are only rock songs if I
kind of tilt my head and squint at them
so hard I mean imagine dragons
undoubtedly a pop rock band in many
respects but there's so much further on
the pop side of that spectrum and things
don't look all that much better when you
go even further down the rock Songs
chart as a lot of the tracks that didn't
make the top ten aren't really all that
rock oriented either maybe the most rock
oriented groups that end up in the top
fifty in my opinion are let's say foo
fighters also Paramore and Black Keys
some of the categorizations get even
more ridiculous when you go into the top
rock albums of the decade as we have in
the top ten Mumford & Sons a compilation
of old rock songs and the guardians of
the galaxy awesome mix vol 1 we have
pure heroin from Lord which is not
really a rock album at all in my opinion
I don't even know she would categorize
it as a rock album and then Mumford &
Sons at 11 and born to die from Lana Del
Ray at 12 again an artist that I don't
think would categorize their music as as
rock music and not that Lana's music has
never had kind of a rock vibe to it or a
guitar in it here and there but born to
die is maybe her least rock record if
anything that album is celebrated if
it's celebrated at all for the way that
it fuses vintage vocal pop with hip hop
aesthetics there's not like any huge
rock drums or rock riffs played
throughout that record so at the end of
the day I feel like I have to interpret
this as two different things one
billboard kind of made a big dumb oopsie
here with some of these categorizations
that make no sense whatsoever but
simultaneously
I feel like this also says something
about the state of rock music that the
band's the artists that end up so high
on a chart like this are only rock music
if you tilt your head and kind of squint
or are rock music being fused with other
things which i think is a trend that is
going on with other popular genres as
well
everything is slowly being pulled into
this one
bland yuni shara but the fact that you
have a list like the hottest
rock songs of the decade on Billboard
Top diam ajan dragons three times and
when you scroll down you see little
Wayne with Wiz Khalifa and imagine
dragons also a bush song on here Bush a
band that I wouldn't even categorize as
being in the top fifty of the best
nineties bands somehow turning up here
with the top 50 song of this decade also
disturbed the sound of silence no thank
you
interpret it how you like the the waning
relevance or the artistic desolation
that is mainstream current day rock
music I don't really know what causes a
list like this personally there's been
no shortage of rock music that I've
enjoyed and reviewed well and talked
about positively throughout the decade
but none of those records are doing as
well as what's over here and once more
it's not like you can't invent new ways
to make rock music or maintain some kind
of rock spirit in what it is you do for
example Rico nasty trust issues as well
as kitsy goes free those are songs made
by artists that are predominantly seen
as hip-hop artists and yet they're kind
of more rock than almost anything on
this top 10 list so I'm gonna leave it
at that over here next to my head is
another video that you can check out hit
that up or the link to subscribe to the
channel let me know in the comments what
you thought of this list does it disgust
you does it disappoint you does a second
you or are we just merely at a point
where this is the current state and
sound of rock music and maybe some of us
are kind of old heads and we're yet to
really accept what this new wave is
offering I don't know
Anthony Fantana top rock songs of the
decade billboard move forever